but life across some parts of the
occupied West Bank and East Jerusalem
has come to a standstill Palestinians
are closing their shops pharmacies
bakeries and solidarity with people in
Gaza they're demanding an immediate
ceasefire and want countries around the
world to put more pressure on Israel to
stop its indiscriminate attacks Alan
fiser reports from occupied East
Jerusalem normally this would be one of
the busiest streets in East Jerusalem
the traffic is normally bumper to bumper
on the pavement on the sidewalk walk
Well normally people are walking three
or four across it's very hard to move
here very easily but today it's a lot
different and why is that because
there's a general strike you see that
the shutters are down on all the stores
from the sport shop to the accessory
store to the cafe to the phone shop all
of them closed today now we've been
speaking to some of the shop owners they
say it's a small sacrifice to make to
make a stand in solidarity with the
people of Gaza it's estimated they'll
lose around 600 $ a day today some more
some less but they think it's important
to make the point that they want to see
an end to the war in Gaza and we spoken
to the people who would normally shop
here and they're being slightly
inconvenienced but they're watching
what's happening in Gaza from a distance
and they feel helpless that they can do
nothing so this is something tangible
something they feel that is showing a
measure of support for the people who
are Under Fire in Gaza and it's not just
here in the occupied in occupied
Jerusalem it's also happening in the
occupied West Bank and internationally
as well we're hearing reports of stores
being closed in am man in Jordan and
also in Beirut and Lebanon all showing
Global support for the people in Gaza
now will it make much of an impact in
Jerusalem it'll hit the economy slightly
because just look all of these stores
are closed in The Wider Israeli economy
it'll have some impact but remember the
Israeli economy is struggling anyway
because of the cost of the war and
globally well there'll be a ripple but
but not much but that's not what's
important what's important is people
here are sending a message it may not be
very loud but they think it's very
important to say they want to see an end
to the war in Gaza and they want to see
it end soon Alan Fischer Al jazer in
occupied East
Jerusalem let's speak now to Zan basari
he's joining us live from rala in the
occupied West Bank and zann you were at
a demonstration earlier in rala where
people were showing their solidarity
with those in Gaza what were they
telling
you well the day here in ramala and the
occupied West Bank started very slow for
a Monday it is the beginning of the week
and the stores were all shuttered
schools were closed no students were
attending University classes all in
solidarity with this National strike
that organizers hope goes Global a
strike in in solidarity with the
Palestinians of Gaza calling for a
ceasefire now in the Square just behind
me there was for a few hours this
afternoon it became a hub of activity
once again normally from dawn to dusk it
is packed and crowded here in the heart
of romala the seat of the Palestinian
Authority but today we only saw a few
hours of activity this afternoon when
protesters came out and they were
chanting all kinds of slogans in in
calling for an end to the war calling
for an immediate ceasefire critical of
their own government of President
Muhammed Abbas for not doing more not
being able to do more anti-israeli
chance uh even taunting them at times
saying that we will die so that
Palestine can live load your bullets in
the barrel and shoot at us we don't care
about our death so a a great deal of
defiance from Palestinians here living
in the occupied West Bank and this
economic disruption for a day it was
disruptive but it was also festive it
was certainly a family affair uh
protesters were out uh with their
children kids were painting a canvas on
the on the road uh decorating it with
Palestinian Flags uh messages of love to
the Palestinians of Gaza that are still
going through Israeli bombardment there
was a large poster of the faces of
children thousands of whom have been
killed since the war on Gaza began since
the Israeli carpet bombing of that area
began so a great deal of support of
solidarity with their fellow
Palestinians in Gaza and people were
telling us that is the least they can do
to shutter their shops for a day and
stand up in the face of this ongoing
Israeli aggression and often times they
say it is the only thing they can do
Palestinians know that they cannot raise
a military to rival israels they do not
have the back in support of a military
political and economic Powerhouse like
the United States they don't have any
sort of big government at their back
they were telling us that all that they
can do is continue to raise their voice
in hope that the International Community
hears their calls for a ceasefire now
their calls for an end to the war in
Gaza there are calls for freedom from an
occupation that has been going on for
decades now 75 years three4 of a century
zann thank you very much for that that
zann basav joining us live from rala in
the occupied West Bank